Welcome back.
We have our list over here and we want to be able to run my link list.
Dot reverse.
That will reverse this list for us.
Let's figure out the code here.
The first thing we want to do is to do a bit of a check.
Imagine if we only had one item in the list.
If there's one node or item in the list, then well, we don't need to really reverse it.
It's already there.
So if this list only contained one, just return whatever we have for now.
So let's do that check here and we can just say if this dot head dot next and this exclamation mark
means doesn't exist, that means if this had gone next, if one is only one and it's null.
This exclamation mark is going to turn this into the opposite, which the way JavaScript works will
turn this into true.
I know it's a little bit confusing, but hopefully you're with me on that one.
All we're saying is if this is the only node and there's only a head node here.
I could also do this by checking the length and we have the length property so I could do something
like if this dot length is equal to one, but let's just keep it the way it is for now.
If there is only one end element, just simply return this dot head the node or we can just return this
as well.
Otherwise.
Let's get into the fun coding part.
The first thing we want to do is say we want to have the first item equals to this dot head and we're
just keeping track of it here.
So we're going to say that we now have a reference to this dot head.
And we also have a reference now to the second item in the list.
So this is going to be first dot next.
So now that we have first and second, we can do some looping.
We can say while the second node.
Exists.
That is as long as second is not null.
So as long as that's happening, we're going to create a temporary variable that holds second spot next.
So we can actually call this third if we want.
But I'm choosing temp because this is going to change.
So we have a reference to first, second and third.
So one, ten and 16.
From here.
We can now say second dot next is going to equal the.
First element.
First is going to equal the second.
Element.
And second is going to equal the temp element.
Oh, boy.
What just happened here?
I know that was a lot of code without a lot of explanation, but let's go through it line by line.
We're looping here after we've grabbed one and we've grabbed ten.
And now I'm going to say as long as this second variable.
Has a value and it's not null.
If that node exists, then I want you to create a temp variable that holds 16.
From there, I'm going to grab that second next, which is the property inside of ten.
And I'm going to say that ten is now going to point.
So second on next is going to point to the first.
So ten has an arrow pointing to one and the first variable which was the head now becomes ten and the
second item becomes 16.
We've switched the pointers, 1 to 10 now goes 10 to 1 and we switch to variables first and second to
now have ten and 16 and we loop through and do the same thing where we have the pointer 10 to 16 reversed.
So that's 16 points to ten and we change the variable so that it's 16 and 18.
So we loop through this, we loop through this, we loop through this.
And then the final thing we need to do is to say that this dot head.
Because this thought had still has the value of one in it.
We're going to say that dot next is going to equal to no.
We're going to have.
1.2 null.
And this head now is instead going to be the first.
And remember, by the time we loop through, everything first becomes 88 and second becomes null.
So we are now changing at the very end, 88 to be equal to the head.
And we also want to make sure that the tail is now one.
And the way we do that, we have to go before the while loop and see here that this dot head, this
first item should be the tail now.
So at the beginning, before we do the loop, the tail.
Become this dot head.
All right.
I know that was confusing, but let's see if that works.
This is one of those problems that you really have to draw it out.
And just by looking at this code, it's really hard for you to understand what's going on.
I recommend that you code this along and step by step, perhaps console.log to understand what's going
on.
If I reverse this list and click Run.
I get undefined because we have to return something.
So let's return.
Return this dot print list.
Want to run this.
All right.
Let me just make sure that we're reversing.
I'm going to comment it out.
So we have the original list, 110 1688.
If we reverse it, we have 88, 16, ten and one.
And just for good measure, instead of printing lists, let's just return this here.
So we get the entire length list to make sure everything is working properly.
I have a link list that has a head value of 88 and a tail value of one.
Looks like it's working.
Awesome.
Good job getting this far.
And if you're able to understand this, I think this is probably the most difficult concept to understand
in this entire course.
So if you're able to get this good job, if not, you might have to watch this video a couple of times
in the end.
And this is the beauty of programming.
All we're doing is logical steps.
And no matter what language you use, whether it's JavaScript like we did in this case, the steps to
create a link list are the exact same.
Syntax may differ, but the logic is the same.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.